"Gold Medal Park" "Gold Medal Park is a 7.5 acre park next to the Guthrie Theater. A 32 ft-high mound, reached by a spiral walkway, offers great views of the riverfront."
"Mill Ruins Park" "Archaeological site at the location of former flour mills and other industrial buildings. A canal that ran through the area has been restored."
"Minneapolis Sculpture Garden" "The Sculpture Garden is an outdoor exhibition of sculptures from many different artists, including the famous Spoonbridge and Cherry. It takes up 11 acres and is one of the largest urban sculpture gardens in the country."
"Stone Arch Bridge" "A former railroad bridge of the Great Northern Railway spanning the Mississippi River; it was abandoned in 1978 and sat idle until it was repaired and adapted for pedestrian and bicycle use in the early 1990s. The Stone Arch is famous for its graceful arches and breathtaking views overlooking the Saint Anthony Falls."
"Foshay Tower" "Museum of the Foshay Tower, the former tallest building in Minneapolis from 1929-1971. The art deco tower was modeled after the Washington Monument. Outdoor observation deck on the 31st floor offers spectacular views of Minneapolis landmarks."
"Mill City Museum" "This interactive museum, an arm of the Minnesota Historical Society, recounts Minneapolis' history as the flour milling capital of the world. The eight-story ""Flour Tower"" ride describes life in the mills, and leads to an observation deck atop the Washburn A Mill, formerly the world's largest flour mill."
"Walker Art Center" "One of the ""big five"" modern art museums in the United States, which underwent expansion in 2005."
"Dayton's Building" "This building was once the flagship store of Dayton's, a highly-renowned Minneapolis institution that was the dominant department store chain of Minnesota, and also had some presence in surrounding states. That all ended when it was rebranded as Marshall Field's in 2001; five years later the Marshall Field's brand would also become a thing of the past when the chain was bought by Macy's. The store floundered under Macy's ownership and was closed in March 2017. The building is currently vacant but is expected to be redeveloped in the near future."
"Basilica of St. Mary" "Opened in 1914 as a pro-cathedral, Pope Pius XI lifted its rank to that of minor basilica in 1926, making it the first basilica in the United States. It serves as co-cathedral for the Archdiocese of Saint Paul and Minneapolis along with the Cathedral of St. Paul."
"Orpheum Theatre" "Opened in 1921 as the Hennepin Theatre, a Beaux-Arts style building that was said to be the largest vaudeville house in the country at the time. It later became a movie house around the 1930s and 40s, and also started hosting live theater in the late 1950s. The theater was renovated in the early 1990s to host larger Broadway productions (a couple musicals debuted here before moving on to Broadway), and it also hosts the occasional concert."
"Guthrie Theater" "This internationally renowned theater opened in 1963 and is known for its productions of both classical literature and new work from contemporary playwrights. In 2006, the theater moved into a new building along the Mississippi River near the old milling district. Designed by award-winning architect Jean Nouvel, this building houses three stages, and also acts as a public space, with restaurants, a cafe, and a 178 foot cantilevered bridge (the ""Endless Bridge"") looking out over the river."
"State Theatre" "The State opened in 1921 and was designed in an Italian Renaissance style. It mostly operated as a movie house, although the theater occasionally hosted vaudeville acts and live music. The theater closed in 1978, but was later renovated and reopened in 1991, and now hosts live theater and concerts."
"Pantages Theatre" "Opened in 1916 as a vaudeville house run by theater magnate Alexander Pantages, later converted to a movie house. Originally built as a Beaux-Arts twelve story complex, it was later significantly reduced to two stories. It operated as the Mann Theater from 1961 until closing down in 1984. A five-year restoration led to its reopening in 2002 under the original name, now hosting theatrical and occasional live music performances."
Sommerfest "Minneapolis' symphony orchestra dating back to 1903. Puts on the annual Sommerfest every summer."
"Brave New Workshop" "An improv and sketch comedy theater that has been around in various locations in Minneapolis since 1958; the theater had a long history in Uptown but moved to its present location in 2010."
"Minnesota Twins" "Opened in 2010, this outdoor stadium is home to Major League Baseball's Minnesota Twins, who moved in after a 28-year long stint at the since-demolished indoor Metrodome."
"Minnesota Lynx" "Home of the NBA Minnesota Timberwolves and the WNBA Minnesota Lynx basketball teams."
"Minnesota Golden Gophers" "New home of the NFL's Minnesota Vikings; also hosts a few early-season Minnesota Golden Gophers (University of Minnesota) baseball games. Fixed-roof stadium built on the site of the Vikings' and Twins' former home of the Metrodome."
"Magical History Tour" "Ride a Segway as you enjoy the history of the Minneapolis Riverfront area from 10,000 BC to present. Tour goes for 5-7 miles on a beautiful historic route. The tour lasts around three hours and includes a stop for refreshments at the Mill City Museum."
"The Hitching Company" "Tour downtown Minneapolis in a horse-drawn carriage with the Hitching Company. Carriages accommodate up to four people."
"Hubert White" "Men's clothing store with in-house tailor. They have been in Downtown Minneapolis (in a couple different locations) since 1936 and started out in Saint Paul back in 1916."
"Gaviidae Common" "A shopping center divided between two adjacent buildings on Nicollet Mall. Gaviidae I and II house exclusive department stores, specialty retailers, and delicious restaurants. Below is a small selection of stores located in Gaviidae Common."
"Indulge And Bloom" "A floral and small gift store."
"City Center" "A brutalist monstrosity of a shopping center from the early 1980s. It went through rough times at the end of the 1990s and through the 2000s; only now are retailers slowly trickling back in."
"James and Mary Laurie Booksellers" "Bookseller offering antiquarian printed maps and used classical and jazz albums."
"Minneapolis Farmers Market" "The flagship farmers market in Minneapolis, operated by the Central Minnesota Vegetables Growers Association. Most of the produce is locally grown, although there are some resellers with non-local produce in the mix as well; each vendor should have signage indicating whether their goods are local. The CMVGA also operates a market along Nicollet Mall on Thursdays during the market season."
"Farmers Market Annex" "Directly adjacent to the main farmers market (many people mistakenly think it's part of the main market), the Annex has many textile and pre-made food vendors mixed in with its produce vendors."
Pacifier "Pacifier offers a wide selection of hip and trendy baby gifts, nursery decor, clothing, wooden toys and baby gear. They also have a smaller location with limited hours at City Center."
"8th Street Grill" "Established in 1992 and known for its burgers and 32 on tap beers. 8th Street Grill serves breakfast, lunch, dinner, and late night."
"Black Sheep Pizza" "The only pizzeria in Minnesota using coal-burning ovens."
"Bombay Bistro" "The only pizzeria in Minnesota using coal-burning ovens."
Davanni's "Chicago-style pizza, beer on tap, good hoagies."
"Salsa a la Salsa" "Authentic Mexican food."
"112 Eatery" "Casual upscale dining with fresh seafood, lamb, bone-in pork tenderloin, baked chicken, country-style ribs, and many other great offerings."
"Atlas Grill" "Delicious global cuisine, a wonderful wine list and beautiful surroundings are perfect for an evening out or a celebration with friends and family."
Barrio "Barrio has extra-cheap happy hour specials on its already-cheap small plates. You can get tacos for less than three bucks. And even during regular hours, Barrio's selection of small plates wont cost much more than 8 bucks."
"Cafe Lurcat" "Highly recommended. Chic establishment with French/fusion offerings."
"Gluek's Restaurant and Bar" "Gluek's is a 4th generation brewery and restaurant. The food and the beer are good, but it is the history of this restaurant that sets it apart. Gluek's has been brewing beer since 1857 and there has been a bar on this site since 1902, except during Prohibition. The building burned in 1989, but was repaired and reopened in 1990."
"Hell's Kitchen" "A chef-owned restaurant known for its damn good food. Awesome atmosphere and full bar."
"Market Bar-B-Que" "A chef-owned restaurant known for its damn good food. Awesome atmosphere and full bar."
"Pizza Lucé" "Full bar, punk rock staff. You can get pizza by the slice or sit down and order a whole pie. This particular Pizza Luce location also offers brunch on Saturdays and Sundays from 10AM-2PM and a gluten-free menu."
"Manny's Steakhouse" "Voted favorite steakhouse by Mpls.St.Paul magazine."
"Murray's Restaurant and Cocktail" "Murray's opened in 1946 and could be considered to be the best white tablecloth restaurant in Minneapolis, with prices to match. If on a budget, consider eating during lunch when you can enjoy the atmosphere without worrying about breaking the bank. Or go all out and get the 4 pound golden butter knife steak at $100+ and share it with the entire family."
"7th Street Entry" "Probably the oldest and most legendary club in town. Dance nights of various flavors (house, salsa, etc.) are hosted as are local and national bands and the occasional weird event such as pro-wrestling and the roller derby league. Housed in the former Minneapolis Greyhound station, the club is located at the corner of 1st Avenue and 7th Street (hence the name), and can be easily identified by its black exterior decorated with silver stars of all the noteworthy artists who've played there. First Avenue gained national notoriety in the mid-1980s as the club where Prince played out his rivalry with Morris Day and The Time in Purple Rain. The club is divided into two main parts. The Mainroom is where the dance nights are held and national touring acts perform. The Mainroom is regarded as one of the premier sites for live music in the country. Often compared to Chicago's Metro, or San Francisco's Filmore. it offers nightly drink specials and a limited kitchen. The 7th Street Entry is a smaller room off to the side where one is more likely to see local bands or lesser known national touring acts. Don't be put off by the small size. Hundreds of touring bands have graduated from the Entry to become major touring acts. Son Volt, Wilco, The Replacements and Jane's Addiction are among the list of bands that played first in the Entry before moving on to the Mainroom, much bigger venues and even arenas."
"Fine Line Music Cafe" "A smaller-sized music club located on 1st Avenue, the Fine Line features national and local acts. The main level provides a close proximity to the acts, while the mezzanine offers meals and seating for a more expensive price."
"Dakota Jazz Club" "Upscale jazz club."
Bunkers "Upscale jazz club."
"O'Donovan's Irish Pub" "A rather small-looking pub with a big inside, this is a good place to go for a pint. They have a nice variety of drinks on tap, from cider to stout to both (""Poor Man's Black Velvet""), and some authentic Irish food in case that isn't thick enough. The help can range from decent to good, and the regulars may even be rather welcoming as well. Fair prices, good beers, and even better food."
"Lee's Liquor Lounge" "A rather small-looking pub with a big inside, this is a good place to go for a pint. They have a nice variety of drinks on tap, from cider to stout to both (""Poor Man's Black Velvet""), and some authentic Irish food in case that isn't thick enough. The help can range from decent to good, and the regulars may even be rather welcoming as well. Fair prices, good beers, and even better food."
"The Lounge" "Jeans are allowed inside the club, but the following attire is not: No white tennis shoes, baseball hats, athletic apparel, badly ripped jeans, baggy clothing, or white t-shirts."
Prohibition "Upscale bar located on the 27th floor of the Foshay Tower."
"Gay 90s" "Historically a gay nightclub, these days the straight patrons often outnumber the gay patrons (sometimes to the chagrin of the latter). Six different bars contained inside. Large dance floor with live DJ. Drag shows nightly."
Aqua "18+ bar and dance club with a live DJ. Generally very loud and very crowded."
"19 Bar" "This casual gay dive bar is also the oldest gay bar in town. Features pool, darts, an outdoor patio, and cheap beer."
"Best Western Normandy Inn and Suites" "On site restaurant. Indoor pool, spa, and sauna."
"Holiday Inn Express Minneapolis Downtown" "Within walking distance of Nicollet Mall and the convention center."
"Aloft Minneapolis" "Located in the Mill District, across the street from the Guthrie Theater, Mill City Museum, Gold Medal Park, and the Stone Arch Bridge. Includes an on site bar, XYZ."
"Crowne Plaza Northstar" "Located in the Mill District, across the street from the Guthrie Theater, Mill City Museum, Gold Medal Park, and the Stone Arch Bridge. Includes an on site bar, XYZ."
"The Depot Renaissance" "Indoor water park and seasonal ice skating rink. Located in the historic Milwaukee Road train station."
"DoubleTree Suites" "Located a few blocks from the Minneapolis Convention Center, and just one block from Nicollet Mall."
"The Hotel Minneapolis" "Recently renovated, this boutique style hotel built in a former bank (the old vault doubles as a wine cellar) offers classy and modern style all at once. Guest rooms are smaller but offer all the amenities of a luxury hotel. The lobby area is inviting with a beautiful lobby bar with free billiards as well as a full service restaurant known as the Max."
"Hilton Minneapolis" "Recently renovated, this boutique style hotel built in a former bank (the old vault doubles as a wine cellar) offers classy and modern style all at once. Guest rooms are smaller but offer all the amenities of a luxury hotel. The lobby area is inviting with a beautiful lobby bar with free billiards as well as a full service restaurant known as the Max."
"Hyatt Place Minneapolis" "Newly renovated hotel with large, comfortable rooms and free, hot breakfast."
"Hyatt Regency Minneapolis" "Rooms start at $189 per night, but discounts can be had. The Hyatt is also home to two high quality dining experiences: Oceanaire and Taxxi."
"Grand Hotel Minneapolis" "Recently renovated luxury hotel and spa with rooms starting at $170 per night. Connected to the climate-controlled Skyway, letting guests walk to the Target Center, Convention Center and other buildings in any weather."
"Radisson Plaza Hotel Minneapolis" "Built on the site of the original Hotel Radisson (which opened in 1909), Radisson Plaza Minneapolis has an important historical significance for Minneapolis, and continues to be a thriving hotel. Featuring the outstanding FireLake Grill House & Cocktail Bar (try the ""purple rain"" martini at the bar, and the... well, really just about anything from the kitchen), underground parking, skyway access, and affordable packages."
"Westin Minneapolis" "Recently built into the historic Farmers & Mechanics Bank in downtown Minneapolis. The wine cellar is built into the former bank's vault. Appropriately, the bar/restaurant is called BANK."
"Hotel Ivy" "Located in the heart of downtown. Connected to seven miles of skyway, connecting guest to attractions such as the Convention Center, Nicollet Mall, Orchestra Hall and the Guthrie Theatre regardless of weather."
"Le Meridien Chambers Hotel" "Luxury hotel with modern art furnishings. Guests get free access to the Walker Art Center. The hotel also houses the Burnet Art Gallery."
"Loews Minneapolis" "Directly across the street from the Target Center, the hotel is connected by Skyway to the entire shopping and business district."
"W Minneapolis" "Located in the Historic Foshay Tower in the heart of downtown. Hotel includes an on site bar, and famous Manny's Steakhouse. Just a block from Nicollet Mall."
"Minneapolis Central Library" "The current Minneapolis Central Library was designed by Cesar Pelli and opened in 2006, replacing a hideous 1950s structure that previously housed the library. Plenty of computers are available here, and there are plenty of tables on each floor equipped with electrical outlets to plug in your laptop computers if you want to use the free wi-fi."
"American Swedish Institute" "A mansion built for Swan and Christina Turnblad; Swan owned one of the largest Swedish language newspapers in the United States. In 1929 the house became a museum dedicated to Swedish-American history and culture."
"Minnehaha Falls" "A 53-foot waterfall. The viewing area is just to the south of the larger park pavilion (the one housing Sea Salt Eatery). There is also a pedestrian bridge above the falls."
"Minnehaha Depot" "A former Milwaukee Road railway depot built in 1875. In the late 19th and early 20th centuries this was how many Minneapolis residents reached Minnehaha Park."
"Longfellow House" "A 2/3 scale replica of Henry Wadsworth Longfellow's house in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Built in 1907 by Robert ""Fish"" Jones, a businessman who earned his nickname from an early investment in a fish market downtown. At various points in its history, the house has acted as a zoo, library, and during a state of disrepair, a haunted house. Today the house is open on summer weekends and acts as an information center for visitors of the Minneapolis park system."
"John H. Stevens House" "Constructed in 1850, the Stevens House was the first authorized house built on the west bank of the Mississippi River in Minneapolis. Originally located near St. Anthony Falls where the city's main post office now sits, the house was moved several times but has occupied its current location in Minnehaha Park since 1896. Built by John H. Stevens, an early settler and later state legislator who was granted permission to build the house in exchange for providing ferry service across the river to the town of St. Anthony (later annexed into Minneapolis)."
"Parkway Theater" "Old cinema adjacent and connected to Pepito's."
"Riverview Theater" "Art deco neighborhood cinema showing second-run movies for cheap. Cash only."
"Trylon Microcinema" "Trylon is a very small cinema (50 seats) screening classic and independent films six nights a week on a 20 foot screen. The cinema's owners, Take-Up Productions, also host occasional larger screenings at the nearby Riverview Theater, along with the Heights Theater in Columbia Heights."
"Mixed Blood Theatre" "Diverse theater company in operation since the 1970s. The theater is in a former fire station, and in a somewhat hard-to-find location with Interstate 35W and the Washington Avenue trench cutting off direct access from the north and west."
"Southern Theater" "Diverse theater company in operation since the 1970s. The theater is in a former fire station, and in a somewhat hard-to-find location with Interstate 35W and the Washington Avenue trench cutting off direct access from the north and west."
"Theatre in the Round" "The theater company has been around since the 1950s and at its current location since 1969. The stage is set up in the middle of the theater with seating surrounding it."
"Open Eye Figure Theatre" "The theater company has been around since the 1950s and at its current location since 1969. The stage is set up in the middle of the theater with seating surrounding it."
"Cedar Cultural Center" "An intimate non-profit music venue hosting jazz, blues, folk, indie, and world music."
"Ted Mann Concert Hall" "1,100 plus seat concert auditorium on the University of Minnesota's West Bank campus. Performances by the U of M's School of Music ensembles are hosted here."
"Dreamhaven Books and Comics" "New and used science fiction, fantasy, horror, film and art books, comics, an adults-only room. Mail order and in-store readings."
"Mayday Books" "Volunteer collectively-run radical bookstore selling left-wing literature."
"Nostalgia Zone" "Best for hard to find old comics and independents. You can also sell comics here, and the dealers are great. The establishment is over 30 years old."
"Uncle Hugo's Science Fiction and Uncle Edgar's Mystery" "Uncle Hugo's dates back to 1974 while Uncle Edgar's dates back to 1980. Originally separate businesses, they have shared the same storefront since 1984. A treasure trove of used and new science fiction, fantasy, and mystery books. It is the oldest science fiction/fantasy book store in North America, and has a well-earned national reputation for its vast selection. The prices are reasonable and you can get an extra 10% off all purchases by buying a $4 discount card. If you're buying more than $40 worth of books, it pays for itself with the first purchase."
"Dead Media" "Used records, audio-cassettes, and books."
"Hymie's Vintage Records" "Used records, audio-cassettes, and books."
"The Podium" "Guitar shop, mostly acoustic."
"Mercado Central" "Latin American indoor market with many food options."
"Midtown Global Market" "The Midtown Global Market is located in what used to be a large Sears store, and is now home to a variety of cafes and restaurants from all around the world. The selection includes an American diner, Mexican tamales, a Middle Eastern deli and buffet, Nepali dumplings, and everything in between."
"Modern Times Cafe" "Diner open for breakfast and lunch. Vegan and gluten-free options available."
"Pineda Tacos" "Diner open for breakfast and lunch. Vegan and gluten-free options available."
Qoraxlow "Somali fare."
"Safari Express" "Somali cuisine; a lot of stewed meat dishes, including goat meat. The restaurant owners also operate the Safari Express inside the Midtown Global Market, with a more limited menu but also offering some items not available at the full service restaurant, namely the camel burger."
"Taquería La Hacienda" "In addition to the location listed here, La Hacienda also has a stall at Mercado Central."
"Taquería Los Ocampo" "In addition to the standalone location listed here, Los Ocampo also has stalls at the Midtown Global Market and Lake Plaza."
"Acadia Cafe" "Acadia moved from it's original home at Franklin & Nicollet into the old Riverside Cafe spot that many restaurants tried to renew, and now Acadia has succeeded. Their menu features 28 beers on tap and 40+ bottle brews plus a well-rounded selection of wine and mixed drinks. A full kitchen serves burgers, fries, appetizers, grilled and cold sandwiches, as well as desserts and a full espresso bar. The cabaret spirit of the old adjacent mini-theater space now fills the new cafe, as before with an eclectic mix of all original music, performed Wednesday through Sunday nights, but with no cover charge."
"Hard Times Cafe" "This all-vegetarian cooperatively-owned diner is a haven for punks, anarchists, hippies, students, and anyone wanting mile-high nachos and wake-the-dead coffee. The entrees range from dirt-cheap to moderate, all in copious amounts, and the bathroom graffiti is art in and of itself. They're open 365 days a year, 22 hours a day--perfect for that pre- or post-bar hangover cure. No credit cards."
"Jewel of India" "The local Indian population, largely consisting of students at the University of Minnesota, gather here to watch cricket matches through the middle of the night but go elsewhere to eat."
"Pizza Lucé" "The local Indian population, largely consisting of students at the University of Minnesota, gather here to watch cricket matches through the middle of the night but go elsewhere to eat."
"Seward Cafe" "Collectively-run mostly-vegetarian cafe that has been in operation since the 1970s. It can get pretty busy on the weekends. Often open for live music events after hours."
"The Wienery" "Small, family owned diner that serves basic fare. It's where the punks, aging hippies and various harmless riff-raff go for breakfast or a lunch of fries, burgers, brats or hot dogs slathered with your choice of toppings. They also carry veggie dogs for the vegetarian in you. The fries are shredded right in front of you and come out oh so crisp! No credit cards."
"5-8 Club" "One of the more popular places in town to get a Juicy Lucy. Has a rivalry with Matt's Bar."
"Fat Lorenzo's" "Good service, good pizza. ""Fat"" is in the name of the place, so plan accordingly. A good first stop or last stop on your way to or from the airport. Beer and wine."
"Gandhi Mahal" "Northern Indian food, vegetarian friendly. Buffet available during lunch hours."
"The Howe" "A sports bar and restaurant in the Longfellow neighborhood, located a few blocks east of the 38th Street LRT station. They have great wings, and American food. Features a dog-friendly back patio with a dog menu."
"Himalayan Restaurant" "Nepalese, Tibetan, and Indian cuisine. Vegan options available."
Jakeeno's "Jakeeno's offers good pizza and other pasta dishes. Try the potato and rosemary pizza. Jakeeno's is clean, friendly and family-run. Wine and beer served."
"Matt's Bar" "Claims to have invented the Jucy Lucy (note the spelling difference)."
"Midori's Floating World Cafe" "A Japanese restaurant in the Longfellow neighborhood, located a few blocks east of the Lake Street LRT station. They have great sushi, and other Japanese food as well. Meal prices are higher at dinner, but pretty reasonable during lunch time. Sushi prices are actually pretty decent, especially when compared to other sushi joints in the city. Vegetarian and vegan friendly."
Pepitos "There's a full bar, a kid-friendly menu and good food at reasonable prices. If you're traveling with a toddler and want decent food in a family-friendly restaurant, Pepitos has a good kid's menu with items for $4.95 each and the food comes fast. So you and yours can eat before your two year-old throws the entire bowl of chips at the adjoining booth. Connected to the Parkway Theater next door."
"Hexagon Bar" "Dive bar in the Seward neighborhood hosts free live shows Thursday through Saturday nights."
Minneseries "Bar with a patio and a bocce ball court outside. Live music some nights. Of particular note is the Minneseries, a month-long Thursday night residency headlined by one local band with various openers each week, and no cover charge."
Palmer's "Tiny dive bar (actual dive, not a fashionable faux-dive) with cheap, stiff drinks, a mixed crowd, and a legendary 86'd board. Not for the faint of heart."
"Angry Catfish Coffee Bar" "Coffee shop that's tied to a bicycle shop. Coffee beans are sourced from Intelligentsia in Chicago."
"Blue Moon Coffee Cafe" "Coffee shop that's tied to a bicycle shop. Coffee beans are sourced from Intelligentsia in Chicago."
"May Day Cafe" "A coffee shop near Powderhorn Park with a selection of baked goods, including a couple vegan options. The place is popular and quite small, so it gets crowded very often; don't be surprised if a complete stranger grabs a seat at your table."
"Peace Coffee" "Coffee shop operated by Peace Coffee, a locally-based brand of organic fair trade coffee, whose product can be found in markets around town."
"Precision Grind Coffee" "Free wi-fi."
"Courtyard Minneapolis" "Mid-rise hotel on the West Bank right next to the Seven Corners intersection, and within easy reach of Downtown and the U of M."
"Sheraton Minneapolis Midtown Hotel" "Located near the Midtown Exchange (formerly a large Sears store and warehouse, now home to a world bazaar-style marketplace, restaurants, office space, condos and apartments) near Lake and Chicago Avenues."
"East Lake Library" "Located near the Midtown Exchange (formerly a large Sears store and warehouse, now home to a world bazaar-style marketplace, restaurants, office space, condos and apartments) near Lake and Chicago Avenues."
"Franklin Library" "Located near the Midtown Exchange (formerly a large Sears store and warehouse, now home to a world bazaar-style marketplace, restaurants, office space, condos and apartments) near Lake and Chicago Avenues."
"Hosmer Library" "Located near the Midtown Exchange (formerly a large Sears store and warehouse, now home to a world bazaar-style marketplace, restaurants, office space, condos and apartments) near Lake and Chicago Avenues."
"Nokomis Library" "Located near the Midtown Exchange (formerly a large Sears store and warehouse, now home to a world bazaar-style marketplace, restaurants, office space, condos and apartments) near Lake and Chicago Avenues."
"Roosevelt Library" "Located near the Midtown Exchange (formerly a large Sears store and warehouse, now home to a world bazaar-style marketplace, restaurants, office space, condos and apartments) near Lake and Chicago Avenues."
"The Bakken Museum" "The world's only museum devoted to medical electricity."
"Hennepin History Museum" "The world's only museum devoted to medical electricity."
"Minneapolis Institute of Art" """The Minneapolis Institute of Arts houses more than 100,000 objects from diverse cultural traditions spanning 5,000 years of world history."""
"The Museum of Russian Art" "Museum showcases Russian art from the 20th century, including Soviet art."
"Lakewood Cemetery" "Museum showcases Russian art from the 20th century, including Soviet art."
"Lyndale Park" "Home to an arboretum, rose gardens, perennial gardens, peace gardens, and a bird sanctuary."
"Beard's Plaisance" "Along the west side of Lake Harriet. Contains a picnic area with a large picnic structure, a playground, and tennis courts."
"Uptown Theatre" "One screen. Films often run for a week or two. Afterwards they sometimes move down to the multi-screen Lagoon Cinema. In addition to the usual concessions, the Uptown Theatre also serves alcoholic beverages in the upstairs bar."
"Lagoon Cinema" "Five screens."
"Cedar Lake" "Cedar Lake has a shady public swimming beach."
"Lake of the Isles" "Lake of the Isles has bird sanctuaries on its (officially off-limits) islands, and a public skating rink (with warming house) are groomed in the winter months. Check the newspaper; you may get lucky and catch a world-class speed-skating competition here. Its shores also feature some of the best climbing trees in the city, particularly for those who carry a short rope ladder in their pack."
"Lake Calhoun" "Lake Calhoun has three public beaches and boat rentals (and lessons), and a snack bar that resembles a real restaurant more every summer."
"Lake Harriet" "Lake Harriet also has boat rentals near its bandshell."
"Jungle Theater" "Lake Harriet also has boat rentals near its bandshell."
"Bryant-Lake Bowl" "Vintage bowling alley with a small theater attached, hosting various small-scale theater, improv, and music events. The BLB is also a decent dining and drinking option."
"Como-Harriet Streetcar Line" "Heritage streetcar line running along a one-mile track between Lake Harriet and Lake Calhoun, which used to be part of a much longer streetcar line that ran all the way to Lake Como in Saint Paul, hence the name. Currently operated by the Minnesota Streetcar Museum, which also operates a heritage streetcar line in Excelsior, near Lake Minnetonka. Its fleet includes two streetcars from the 1900s built by the Twin City Rapid Transit Company and one PCC streetcar from the 1940s built by the St. Louis Car Company. Streetcars begin and end their journey at Linden Hills Station located at 42nd and Queen on the west side of Lake Harriet. There is also a second much less used stop on near the east side of Lake Calhoun at 36th Street and Richfield Road."
"New Orient Market" "Heritage streetcar line running along a one-mile track between Lake Harriet and Lake Calhoun, which used to be part of a much longer streetcar line that ran all the way to Lake Como in Saint Paul, hence the name. Currently operated by the Minnesota Streetcar Museum, which also operates a heritage streetcar line in Excelsior, near Lake Minnetonka. Its fleet includes two streetcars from the 1900s built by the Twin City Rapid Transit Company and one PCC streetcar from the 1940s built by the St. Louis Car Company. Streetcars begin and end their journey at Linden Hills Station located at 42nd and Queen on the west side of Lake Harriet. There is also a second much less used stop on near the east side of Lake Calhoun at 36th Street and Richfield Road."
"Shuang Hur Supermarket" "Heritage streetcar line running along a one-mile track between Lake Harriet and Lake Calhoun, which used to be part of a much longer streetcar line that ran all the way to Lake Como in Saint Paul, hence the name. Currently operated by the Minnesota Streetcar Museum, which also operates a heritage streetcar line in Excelsior, near Lake Minnetonka. Its fleet includes two streetcars from the 1900s built by the Twin City Rapid Transit Company and one PCC streetcar from the 1940s built by the St. Louis Car Company. Streetcars begin and end their journey at Linden Hills Station located at 42nd and Queen on the west side of Lake Harriet. There is also a second much less used stop on near the east side of Lake Calhoun at 36th Street and Richfield Road."
"Truong Thanh Market" "Heritage streetcar line running along a one-mile track between Lake Harriet and Lake Calhoun, which used to be part of a much longer streetcar line that ran all the way to Lake Como in Saint Paul, hence the name. Currently operated by the Minnesota Streetcar Museum, which also operates a heritage streetcar line in Excelsior, near Lake Minnetonka. Its fleet includes two streetcars from the 1900s built by the Twin City Rapid Transit Company and one PCC streetcar from the 1940s built by the St. Louis Car Company. Streetcars begin and end their journey at Linden Hills Station located at 42nd and Queen on the west side of Lake Harriet. There is also a second much less used stop on near the east side of Lake Calhoun at 36th Street and Richfield Road."
"College of Comic Book Knowledge" "Great for newer and more mainstream comics."
"Magers and Quinn" "New and used books."
"Once Upon A Crime" "Mystery bookstore. Ask about The Annex: two giant rooms full of rare first editions, out of print books, magazines, journals, and thousands of hard-to-get gently used volumes. Great for finding new titles and plenty of back-list books for hordes of mystery and thriller writers."
"Wild Rumpus" "A renowned children's bookstore with a plethora of live animals roaming around; the cats somehow manage to coexist peacefully with the birds, mice, chicken, and other animals."
Ragstock "A local chain of used clothing stores. Clothing is shipped in from thrift stores across the country and sorted through and either torn to rags for commercial use, or pulled aside to be sold in one of the stores. There are stores around the Twin Cities area in addition to the Uptown location listed above."
Cheapo "Cheapo specializes in all areas of music as well as DVDs and vinyl records. If you are looking for something that's hard to find, it's a good bet that they will have it. If not, they can order it for you. They also have a large collection of used CDs with huge inventories coming in everyday."
"Electric Fetus" "Possibly the most complete selection of CDs in town across all genres. Hold on tight to your wallet when you walk in here. If there's an obscure CD you've been looking for, this place is likely to have it. Listening stations are posted throughout the store enticing all who enter to try out some new music. It's the place you would go if you had unlimited resources for buying new music. Be prepared to pay full price, although new releases are frequently on sale. Buy four CDs and get a discount. Tickets for local venues are on sale here too."
"Extreme Noise Records" "Specializes in all punk and subgenres therein. A cooperative run for almost 20 years by local punks. Amazing selection of punk 'zines, CD's, LP's and 7-inches. The place in town for finding hard-to-find punk records, trading punk records, finding other punks, seeking out that basement show, etc. Don't let the punk rock moniker scare the less-than punk away. If you want to see what a truly independent local scene can produce and meet some of the most earnest members of said scene, you must check out Extreme Noise."
"Fifth Element" "Record store specializing in hip-hop. Established in 1999 by local record label Rhymesayers Entertainment."
"Roadrunner Records" "Has a great selection of independent LP's, CD's and DVD's. Known for their international music section. Punk and alt-country genres don't suffer. A great independent record store with lots of local and independently produced product."
"The Bad Waitress" "Hipster diner. You have to write your order on a ticket and give it to the cashier, hence the restaurant name."
"Black Forest Inn" "The most renowned German restaurant in the Twin Cities."
Christos Greek.
"El Mariachi" Mexican.
"Evergreen Chinese Restaurant" "Taiwanese cuisine, very vegetarian and vegan friendly."
"Harry Singh’s Original Caribbean Restaurant" "The menu at Harry Singh's is dominated by roti wraps and creole rice dishes."
"Jasmine 26" "A fancier Vietnamese restaurant operated by the owners of Jasmine Deli. The salt and pepper tofu appetizer is to die for. Vegetarian and vegan friendly."
"Jasmine Deli" "Ridiculously cheap but well-regarded Vietnamese food. Vegetarian and vegan friendly. No credit cards."
"Little Tijuana Cafe" "Totally inauthentic Mexican, but mindblowing food isn't what people really come here for. A quirky little hole-in-the-wall joint open very late and popular with the punks, drunks and other weirdos. Crayons and paper tablecloths are offered to keep its patrons from defacing the tables or walls; if they like your artwork they might even hang it up!"
"Pancho Villa" "Mexican. Two-for-one margaritas and selected beers on weekdays. Spanish language karaoke!"
Peninsula "Malaysian cuisine. They make their own tofu, but vegans beware that it contains egg."
"Pho 79" Vietnamese.
"Pho Tau Bay" Vietnamese.
Quang Vietnamese.
"Rainbow Chinese Restaurant" Vietnamese.
"French Meadow Bakery and Cafe" "Owner and founder of this excellent bakery and cafe, Lynn Gordon, has a passion for fabulous yeast free breads, and has been an artisan baker since before that term began to be applied to high-quality individual bakers. Virtually everything on the menu is delicious and original, and save room for the desserts and fair trade coffee. On weekends arrive early to avoid the brunch rush. Vegetarian and vegan options available."
Fuji-Ya "Popular sushi restaurant, a Lyn-Lake favorite."
"Galactic Pizza" "The decor is kitschy. Their stand out feature is not only a little car run 100% by electric power but the delivery driver dons a funky costume while driving said vehicle. If you order the Second Harvest pizza (which is excellent) the business donates a dollar to the Second Harvest Food Bank (for every one ordered). Vegetarian friendly, vegan soy cheese and mockmeats available."
"It's Greek to Me" "One of the best Greek restaurants in the Twin Cities."
"Milkjam Creamery" "Ice cream shop with flavors ranging from normal like the Black (very dark cocoa) to odd ones like the Elvis (curry peanut butter banana). Most of the flavors are gluten-free, and some are vegan."
moto-i "Japanese restaurant with house-brewed sake and a rooftop patio."
"Muddy Waters Bar and Eatery" "Formerly a coffeehouse at 24th and Lyndale, Muddy Waters has moved down to Lyn-Lake and expanded into a full-service restaurant and bar."
"Pizza Lucé" "You can get pizza by the slice or sit down and order a whole pie. Vegetarian friendly; vegan soy cheese, nut cheese, and mockmeats available. Also offers gluten-free pizzas."
Barbette "French-inspired cafe. Also hosts the annual Bastille Day block party celebration in the summer."
Davanni's "Chicago-style pizza, beer on tap, good hoagies too."
"Isles Bun and Coffee" "A classic city bakery and coffee shop. Very limited seating inside, but with sidewalk tables and two blocks to Lake of the Isles it hardly matters. Bakers work in full view in a sunken work area behind the counter, putting out some of the best rolls, buns, and other delectables in the city. Check out the cinnamon roll and their savory breakfast items."
Origami "Best known for their sushi. Generally a posh, overly-sedate crowd and indifferent service."
"Tin Fish" "Right on the shore of Lake Calhoun. Serves mainly seafood, and is of high quality. Prices are reasonable. Service is quite good."
"Namaste Cafe" "Namaste is located in a duplex converted to a restaurant and gift shop, so try to keep your eye out when heading down Hennepin. The owners are Nepali and the food is very similar to Indian cuisine. The cooking is very homey and the prices are quite reasonable for such a prime location. Lunch will cost around $8. Try one of their amazing chai teas; 8 varieties to choose from. They grind their own spices and mix up one heck of a good cup. Vegetarian and vegan friendly."
"Broders Cucina Italiana" "Small Italian deli, limited seating available."
"Broders Pasta Bar" "The sit-down restaurant operated by the same people that run the deli across the street. The menu features around 20 different past dishes, a mix of new and old favorites. Although reasonably small and often crowded (they don't take reservations), it is worth the wait!"
"Cavé Vin" "Cave Vin features a Mediterranean/French menu. Tons of charm, great food and wine."
"Gigi's Cafe" "Gigi's is a great little cafe: ""coffee house by day, dinner joint by night."" Free parking and WiFi. Gigi's has new management, Kim Bartmann, founder of the much celebrated Barbette, Bryant Lake Bowl, and Red Stag Supper Club."
"Hola Arepa" "Restaurant specializing in Venezuelan arepas, which are cornmeal griddle cakes with various fillings."
"Pepito's Mexi-Go Deli" "A deli-style fast food version of their sit-down restaurant on 48th and Chicago. Try the fish tacos, they're fantastic. No alcohol, but fast service and fantastic food for those on the go."
Piccolo "Small plates artfully crafted."
"Punch Neapolitan Pizza" "Neapolitan pizzeria in a strip mall on the opposite side of the lakes from Uptown. Pizzas are baked in an 800F wood-burning oven for 90 seconds. Punch is one of the few restaurants that actually has certification from the official Napoli pizza organization."
"Victor's 1959 Cafe" "Cuban restaurant with good portions and a somewhat fashionably divey atmosphere; the interior is covered in graffiti from previous patrons. The cafe looks like a shack on the outside and seating is pretty limited; be prepared for long waits on the weekends."
"CC Club" "A cheap and popular punk/alternative hangout, a favorite of the Replacements and the setting for their song ""Here Comes a Regular."""
"Red Dragon" "Nominally a restaurant serving unremarkable grease-bomb Chinese food, the Red Dragon is more noted for its alcohol menu. That menu includes the infamous Wondrous Punch, a mixture of four different kinds of rum with a bit of grenadine and fruit juice; one order of punch is plenty for most people."
"Famous Dave's BBQ and Blues Club" "Local and national blues acts."
"Bob's Java Hut" "Free wifi. Frequently a day-time biker hang out. Nice staff."
Caffetto "Free wifi."
"Canteen Local 3255" "Free wifi."
"Dogwood Coffee" "One of the few coffee shops in town that roasts their own beans. Try the single-origin espresso."
"Spyhouse Coffee" "Free wifi."
"Spyhouse Coffee" "Free wifi."
"Uncommon Grounds" "Located in a renovated Victorian house. Free wifi."
"Urban Bean" "Free wifi."
"Vicinity Coffee" "Features locally roasted small batch coffees. Free wifi."
"Vicinity Coffee" "Features locally roasted small batch coffees. Also has a small hot foods menu. Free wifi."
"Minneapolis International Hostel" "This is the only backpackers' hostel in the Twin Cities. Quick walking distance to the Minneapolis College of Art and Design, the Minneapolis Institute of Arts, and Eat Street. A 15 minute walk or short bus ride to Downtown, and a short bus ride to Uptown. A credit card number is required to be on file for every party staying with them."
"Linden Hills Library" "This is the only backpackers' hostel in the Twin Cities. Quick walking distance to the Minneapolis College of Art and Design, the Minneapolis Institute of Arts, and Eat Street. A 15 minute walk or short bus ride to Downtown, and a short bus ride to Uptown. A credit card number is required to be on file for every party staying with them."
"Walker Library" "This is the only backpackers' hostel in the Twin Cities. Quick walking distance to the Minneapolis College of Art and Design, the Minneapolis Institute of Arts, and Eat Street. A 15 minute walk or short bus ride to Downtown, and a short bus ride to Uptown. A credit card number is required to be on file for every party staying with them."
"Washburn Library" "This is the only backpackers' hostel in the Twin Cities. Quick walking distance to the Minneapolis College of Art and Design, the Minneapolis Institute of Arts, and Eat Street. A 15 minute walk or short bus ride to Downtown, and a short bus ride to Uptown. A credit card number is required to be on file for every party staying with them."
"Theodore Wirth Park" "Sandwiched between North Minneapolis and the western suburbs, this is the largest park in the Minneapolis park system."
"Homewood Studios" "Neighborhood art gallery and artists' workspace. Also hosts temporary art exhibitions, book readings, and live music."
"Capri Theater" "250-seat theater, originally functioning as a cinema known as the Paradise Theater from 1933-1967; it is the last of the historic movie houses still standing in North Minneapolis. Today it is a live venue hosting jazz shows and open-mic nights."
Friedman's "Independent shoe store dating from the 1890's."
"Guilded Salvage Antiques" "Antique lighting and hardware salvaged from houses and other buildings slated for demolition."
"Venture North" "Bicycle shop selling used bikes, new parts, and offering repair and tune-up services. Also doubles as a coffee shop."
"Banana Blossom" "Vietnamese and Thai cuisine."
"Broadway Pizza" "Vietnamese and Thai cuisine."
"The Lowry Cafe" "Vietnamese and Thai cuisine."
"Milda's Cafe" "Small neighborhood diner (only open for breakfast and lunch) that has been in operation since 1965. The caramel and cinnamon rolls are fairly popular."
"Sammy's Avenue Eatery" "Small neighborhood diner (only open for breakfast and lunch) that has been in operation since 1965. The caramel and cinnamon rolls are fairly popular."
"Tootie's on Lowry" Burgers.
"Cliff-n-Norm's Bar" "Neighborhood blue collar dive bar."
"Cuppa Java" "Bryn Mawr coffeehouse with free wifi."
"North Regional Library" "Bryn Mawr coffeehouse with free wifi."
"Sumner Library" "Bryn Mawr coffeehouse with free wifi."
"Webber Park Library" "Bryn Mawr coffeehouse with free wifi."
"Boom Island Park" "A beautiful riverside park with walking/biking paths, a picnic area and plenty of parking. In spite of the name, Boom Island is no longer actually an island; the stream separating it from the mainland was filled in during the early 20th century. A pedestrian bridge connects Boom Island to Nicollet Island (which is still a true island)."
"Grain Belt Brewery Complex" "A collection of buildings near 13th and Marshall. The brewhouse was built in 1891, some smaller buildings nearby were built in the early 1900s; the brewery ceased operation in 1976."
"Our Lady of Lourdes Catholic Church" "Built in 1854, this is the oldest continuously operating church in Minneapolis."
"Chute Square" "The Ard Godfrey House, built in 1849, is the oldest surviving frame house in the Twin Cities. Built by Ard Godfrey, who constructed the first dam and sawmills at St. Anthony Falls. The house was moved around several times but has been at its current location in Chute Square since 1907. Free tours on summer weekends."
"Firefighters Hall and Museum" "A plethora of fire trucks, equipment, photos, and other items from Minnesota fire departments dating from the 1860s to the present. Fire truck rides available during the summer months."
Art-A-Whirl "The largest open-studio and gallery tour in the United States. Locations scattered around Northeast, but mostly in the Northeast Arts District (Broadway St to 26th Ave, Central Ave to the Mississippi River), Old St. Anthony, and near 29th Ave and Johnson St."
"Stone Arch Cinema" "Five-screen cinema. They also host the Film Society of Minneapolis-St. Paul."
Bibelot "Gifts, cards, and jewelry."
"The Herbivorous Butcher" "The world's first vegan ""butcher"" shop, actually a purveyor of made-from-scratch plant-based meat and cheese alternatives."
"Magus Books and Herbs" "New Age, astrology, herbs, alternative religion, etc."
"Rewind Vintage" "Best selection of mostly vintage and some contemporary clothing and accessories. This little store is packed full of treasures for women and men."
Surdyks "Surdyks is a Northeast landmark. They are known to suburbanites for their wine and cheese, but locals know that there are a dozen liquor stores within two miles that are better for the former; and a Lunds grocery two blocks away with six times as much of the latter."
"Gorkha Palace" "Indian, Nepalese, and Tibetan cuisine. Lunch buffet on weekdays. Labeled vegan options."
Kramarczuk's "A large, authentic Eastern European deli with attached sausage counter/cheese shop. The deli offers delicious and traditional Polish and Ukrainian foods, not to mention the best sausage in town."
"Pizza Nea" "A charming a cozy pizzeria specializing in Neapolitan-style thin crust, wood-fired pizza. They also have a good wine list and a small selection of choice beers."
"Punch Neapolitan Pizza" "Traditional Neapolitan pizza baked for 90 seconds in an 800 degree oven. Can be busy, but worth braving the crowd."
"Red Stag Supper Club" "The first LEED Certified restaurant in Minneapolis is also delicious, if a bit spendy."
"Wilde Roast Cafe" "This Oscar Wilde-themed and queer-friendly cafe and restaurant has possibly the best atmosphere of any cafe in town. Its nouveau-Victorian decor - complete with a giant portrait of Oscar Wilde - make for a great relaxation or date destination. Plush surroundings with leather couches as well as tables and chairs. The drinks and expertly crafted desserts are of high-quality, but a tad pricey."
"Adelita's Mexican Restaurant" "Family owned and operated restaurant with some of the best food anywhere in the Twin Cities area. Wide selection of beer and numerous televisions that make soccer watching easy."
"Crescent Moon Bakery" "One tasty Afghani restaurant with reasonable prices. The Afghan pizza with its special sauce is a legend in Nordeast for good reason. What most miss due to the pull of the pizza is their equally incredible gyro meat, expertly seasoned and lightly charred for a nice texture. They also serve kebab platters."
"El Taco Riendo" "A family-owned Mexican restaurant. The food is cheap and delicious."
"Holy Land" "Renowned Middle Eastern and Mediterranean restaurant, bakery, deli, and grocery. The gyros are some of the best in the United States, and the chicken curry gyros are very original and tasty. It's hard to go wrong with their menu, which is especially friendly towards vegetarians. A buffet is offered during lunch-time 7 days a week, plus dinner-time on Friday, Saturday, and Sunday. Some of their breads and hummus appear in grocery stores across the Twin Cities, but you can get them cheaper right from the source."
"Sen Yai Sen Lek" "This Thai restaurant is quickly becoming a Northeast favorite. Plenty of meat options but also very accommodating to vegetarians and vegans, and the spice tray brought to your table allows you to adjust the spiciness of your dish to your liking. The restaurant aims to be as environmentally sustainable as possible by recycling or composting much of their waste."
"The Anchor Fish and Chips" "Chip-shop run by Irish immigrants. Very well-received by both the public and critics, both the setting and the food are outstanding. They don't take reservations, so be prepared to wait for a table, especially on weekends and evenings."
Erte "Steakhouse with a modern twist and reasonable prices."
"Gasthof zur Gemutlichkeit" "German restaurant and dance hall, popular with the drinking crowd for the 'boots' of beer served in the basement."
"Jax Cafe" "A neighborhood institution serving traditional American fare, specializing in steak."
"Que Viet" "Established in 1980. In spite of the name the menu seems to be mostly Americanized Chinese food."
"The Sample Room" "Specializes in sampler menus (multiple cheeses, multiple wines, etc. Interesting eclectic menu."
"The Coffee Shop NE" "A small neighborhood cafe, usually full of locals. Free WiFi."
"Diamonds Coffee Shoppe" "Located in a former warehouse, Diamonds has numerous small rooms to foster easier discussion, live music every Saturday in the back, great pancake breakfast on 2nd Sunday of every month. Credit cards are accepted, but only for purchases over $5. Wi-Fi exists, but does not seem to connect well."
"Matchbox Coffee Shop" "Probably the smallest coffee shop you will ever be in, Matchbox is a unique, communally run brew-house serving fair trade coffee exclusively. Their motto is, ""Great coffee, no bosses."""
"331 Club" "Live music almost every night, and they never charge a cover. Le Cirque Rouge burlesque show happens here on Saturdays."
"Keegan's Irish Pub" "A traditional Irish pub with good food and Guinness on tap. Live music often."
Mayslack's "This neighborhood joint has live music and killer roast beef sandwiches."
"Psycho Suzi's Motor Lounge" "A hip tiki bar with strong drinks and great 3/4-circle booths near the jukebox. Features a huge riverfront patio."
"Club Underground" "Home to Club Underground, a live music venue in the basement of the Spring Street Tavern."
"Terminal Bar" "Live music."
Whitey's "Good beer and strong drinks. If you order without ice they make it a double rather than just watering it down more like most bars do. The basement is the seediest in town and the perfect place to take over if you have a few friends who want to shoot pool and not be bothered by anyone but the occasional staffperson coming through to change a keg."
"Nicollet Island Inn" "While the downtown hotels are hardly far away from Northeast, the Nicollet Island Inn splits the difference. Located on Nicollet Island, in the middle of the Mississippi River between downtown and Northeast, the Inn provides luxury small hotel accommodations, as well as an excellent restaurant."
"Northeast Community Library" "While the downtown hotels are hardly far away from Northeast, the Nicollet Island Inn splits the difference. Located on Nicollet Island, in the middle of the Mississippi River between downtown and Northeast, the Inn provides luxury small hotel accommodations, as well as an excellent restaurant."
"Pierre Bottineau Community Library" "While the downtown hotels are hardly far away from Northeast, the Nicollet Island Inn splits the difference. Located on Nicollet Island, in the middle of the Mississippi River between downtown and Northeast, the Inn provides luxury small hotel accommodations, as well as an excellent restaurant."
"Bell Museum of Natural History" "A collection of various animal and plant specimens from around the world."
"Weisman Art Museum" "Frank Gehry-designed art museum on the University of Minnesota campus."
"Witch's Hat" "A small city park that is home to the Prospect Park Water Tower (commonly known as the Witch's Hat), which is located on one of the highest points in the city. The top of the tower has great views of Minneapolis and Saint Paul, but unfortunately it is only open on one day of the year, typically the Friday after Memorial Day from about 5PM-8PM. If you actually happen to be visiting the city on that day, don't pass the opportunity to climb up to the top of the tower."
"Varsity Theater" "Elegantly decorated theater that now acts as a music venue. Shows are mostly all ages or 18+."
"Northrop Auditorium" "2,700-seat performing arts venue."
"Minnesota Gophers" "Home to the Minnesota Gophers NCAA football team."
"Mariucci Arena" "Home to the Gophers men's hockey team."
"Williams Arena" "Home to the Gophers men's and women's basketball teams."
"The Book House" "Huge selection of used books. Also has a rare book collection and a small selection of vinyl records."
"Varsity Bike & Transit" "Sells traditional, electric, and cargo bikes, plus accessories. Also offers bike repair services."
"Al's Breakfast" "A slightly hidden diner that is perfect for mornings. Seating at a single counter, line forms behind stools. Delightfully crunchy hash-browns and greasy egg-dishes will take care of that American diner breakfast craving. Some think it gets by on reputation these days and anywhere with elbow room is better. Only you can decide."
"Annie's Parlour" "Burgers and malts on the second-story patio. They charge extra for every single item, so a burger/fries/shake starts getting expensive but it's worth it if you're in the mood."
"Burrito Loco" "A burrito joint plus a full service bar. Service can be quite dodgy earlier in the evening; they seem to forget about customers outside of rush times."
Camdi "Chinese/Vietmanese restaurant, very small space (can sometimes get over-crowded during the lunch rush). Vegetarian/vegan friendly and dirt cheap (especially the lunch specials)."
"Erbert and Gerbert's" "Regional sub shop chain."
"Loring Bar & Restaurant" "For pasta and an eclectic, very romantic atmosphere, try the descendant of the now-defunct Loring Pasta Bar. Cozy and comfy with amazing bar and marble/stone bathrooms, although a little pricey for the tiny sevings. Vegetarians welcome."
"Mesa Pizza" "Dozens of varieties of pizza, available by the slice or a whole pie. Some varieties are bizarre (some may even say grotesque), such as the infamous macaroni-and-cheese pizza. One vegan pie available daily. Very popular with the post-2AM drunkards."
"Shuang Cheng" "A perennially popular and surprisingly authentic Chinese restaurant. Often raved about in reviews due to its dishes' abundances of vegetables and unique offerings (such as Walleye with Black Beans Sauce), it also offers standard fare. Vegetarians welcome."
"Tony's Diner" "Features gyros—stuffed with french fries like they do in Greece—and baklava mixed in with excellent burgers and hot sandwiches and hoagies."
Bona "Vietnamese. Vegetarians welcome."
"Hong Kong Noodle" "Mandarin-character-menu-authentic Chinese cuisine that is good for cheap eats. Vegetarians welcome."
"Stub and Herbs" "If you're not up for a perpetual Ladies' Night and preening Greeks, Stub and Herbs is a great bar/restaurant for those seeking standard American fare. They offer fresh soft pretzels with sweet'n'hot mustard and an expansive shot list and draft beer selection, helping to make it a local institution. Better than your average college hangout, but if you hate crowds it is best avoided on weekend evenings and game days (especially Gopher's hockey)."
Obento-Ya "Small Japanese bistro."
"Restaurant Alma" "Amazing food which can best be described as a combination between French, Fusion, and small-town Minnesotan. They use almost exclusively organic ingredients."
"Kitty Cat Klub" "A swanky nightspot. Hosts live music at night."
"Sally's Saloon" "The daily dining specials at Sally's help make it a popular afternoon and evening destination among University students. At night, this is the place on the East Bank to see drunk college kids tripping over each other."
"Blarney Pub and Grill" "A faux-Irish college bar that has nightly drink specials, multiple levels and three full bars. Karaoke and long island ice tea specials bring in huge crowds on Thursday nights."
"Purple Onion Cafe" "A faux-Irish college bar that has nightly drink specials, multiple levels and three full bars. Karaoke and long island ice tea specials bring in huge crowds on Thursday nights."
"Wales House" "A unique bed and breakfast in a historic home, the Wales House tries to make you feel at home during your stay. Plus a bonus is Skye, the friendly canine resident!"
"Days Inn University of Minnesota" "A couple blocks east of the University of Minnesota. Convenient access to Downtown Minneapolis. Complimentary shuttle within a two mile radius, plus shuttles to and from the airport for a fee."
"University Inn" "A couple blocks east of the University of Minnesota. Convenient access to Downtown Minneapolis. Complimentary shuttle within a two mile radius, plus shuttles to and from the airport for a fee."
"The Commons Hotel" "All rooms feature a 42-inch flat-screen TV, refrigerator, and free high-speed internet. The hotel also has a gastropub and a fitness center."
"Southeast Community Library" "All rooms feature a 42-inch flat-screen TV, refrigerator, and free high-speed internet. The hotel also has a gastropub and a fitness center."
